#Senselife Real-time Health Monitoring System 
**Human Computer Interaction Project under the guidance of Dr. Filia Makedon (Director of Heracleia Lab & iPerform Center at UT Arlington)**

##Description:##
• SenseLife is an android and web application which allows user to connect to all the wearable health sensors. It comes with heart rate monitoring system which alerts the user's emergency contacts in case of an emergency.
 
• User's health data such as heart rate, no. of calories, distance traveled, etc. are stored in NoSQL database and can be visualized online. 

• User or his family can login to the website and analyze his health data of the previous month. It is aimed at users of age group 40 - 60 who use wearable health sensors and reluctant to install and learn about using a separate complimentary application that comes with the manufacturer's device. 

• Provided user functionality to remotely monitor his health data in real-time and visualize the health data in form of graphs.
User's Health practitioner can analyze his physiological metric data such as heart rate, body temperature, steps covered in a day, etc over a prolonged period and help them give the right feedback and advise in order to improve the overall health of the user.

• Curently integrated Microsoft Band with the application. 

##Application Features:##
SenseLife system provides both *mobile* and *web application* interface to users. 

###**Mobile Application**###
The mobile application provides the following features to the users: 
•	Register: The user can register on SenseLife system using an email id. 

•	Login: User can login to prevent unauthorized access.
 
•	Power Device: User can use this toggle button to connect or disconnect the device.

•	Dashboard: It displays the health data such as Heart Rate, Calories, Body temperature and Distance travelled by the user. The health data feed shown here is in real-time. 

•	Devices: It permits the user to add multiple devices using the same application.

•	Authorize Data: The user can share his physiological metric values with others by entering the email id of the person with whom he wants to share the data. Only the people who have been authorized by the user can view the shared data. 

•	Threshold Slider: The user can set a custom threshold value for heart rate, body temperature and calories, based on the activity he is performing. This is an attempt to reduce false positive alerts. 

•	Emergency Trigger: Once user exceeds the threshold limit, an alert is triggered and a notification indicating it is sent to the user and the emergency contact. This is one of the novelties of this system. 

•	Logout: User can safely log off from the application.

###**Web Application**###
The web application contains all the above mentioned features in mobile application, along with the following features focusing on data visualization:

•	Emergency Contacts: User can add new contacts to or remove contacts from this list. The people on this list are the first to get a notification in case of emergency.

•	Edit Profile: User can update his personal information such as height, weight, email id, etc.

•	Compare Data: It shows a real-time comparison among the collected physiological metric values. These charts are self-explanative and easily understood by all.

•	Historical Data: This section allows the user to see the previous recorded health data. User can choose any data and time as per the device usage and view the heart rate history, calories, body temperature and steps. 

•	Historical Data all: This section allows the user to see previous analysis of heart rate vs the body temperature.


##Directories:##
**Android:**
- Android application project developed using Adobe PhoneGap and Apache Cordova (https://cordova.apache.org/)

**backendapp:**
- Web Application which can be accessed using browser and is used for interacting with the MySQL database and store user specific data.
- Developed using Laravel framework (https://laravel.com/docs/5.4) , HTML, CSS, Bootstrap and Javascript 

**websocket:**
- websocket server to handle realtime data generated by sensors using NodeJS, Socket IO, NPM

*Team Members: Rajat Dhanuka, Achyut P and Monica E (UT Arlington)*
